Holebaagilu is situated on the banks of the Sharavati River about 30 km from Sagar, Karnataka. One has to take a diversion from B. H. Road towards Ikkeri Road to get there. The Sharavati backwaters of Linganamakki dam has submerged acres of land. It is a place of natural beauty. It is in Kolur Grama Panchayat limits. One has to take a flatboat to get across the backwaters to reach the other side where Sigandooru is.




Honnemaradu is a tourist place situated on the back waters of River Sharavathi.

Honnemardu derived its name from the Honne tree. However, the literal meaning of Honnemardu is Golden Lake. This is perhaps a reference to the fact that Honnemardu is located on the backwaters of the Sharavathi river.

It is in Sagara taluk, Karnataka about 35 km from Sagara on the way to Jog Falls, 12 km from Talaguppa and 392 km from Bangalore. With reservations, visitors in groups of at least 12 can stay overnight, with facilities for food, shelter and equipment rentals nearby.[1]


Honnemardu is a small village perched on the hills that overlook the Linganamakki Reservoir. The reservoir is also known as Honnemardu after the village. In the middle of this huge water body there is a small island that attracts campers. In addition to the adventure activities, Honnemardu is a birdwatchers paradise and one can spend endless hours watching and trying to identify the large variety of birds and butterflies. Honnemardu camp is managed by a dedicated team of nature enthusiasts called 'Adventurers'. (The group had its office in Bangalore and to go to Honnemardu we needed to book our seats 2 weeks in advance).[2]

Honnemaradu, a heaven for water sports, is tucked away in the lush greenery of the Western Ghats along the Sharavati backwaters near Sagara. Encompassing an area of 50 km by 80 km, this reservoir stretches as far as the eye can see. Honnemaradu or “Golden Lake” has some of the most spectacular views of the sunrise and sunset.

Deep in the forest, Honnemaradu is a haven for outdoors fanatics as well as those who want a complete break from city life. Trekking, however, is only permitted along roads in a designated area.


Free boat ride in Honnemaradu

Sunrise at Honnemaradu

Honnemaradu

Island view at Honnemaradu

Another view of Honnemaradu

Boating at Honnemaradu
Some of the water sports activities here include boating and kayaking, but it only permitted with a guide. Swimming is not allowed. There are no longer equipment for wind rafting.

Jog Falls is created by the Sharavathi River. The water plummets down from a great height of 829 ft, the highest in India. It’s in Sagara Taluk.
Dabbe Falls,Sagara: Located 30 km from Jog Falls, Dabbe is another enchanting waterfall in Sagara. This waterfall is hidden in the mountains near Hosagadde.
Kayakers can plan their next vacation in the hill stations of Karnataka. Kayaking in Honnemaradu is a unique experience, as the kayaks are round and cannot travel very far. Kayaking is permitted only with a guide. The grace the Western Ghats adds to the charm of kayaking in Honnemaradu. Honnemaradu on the back waters of the Sharavathi River.




Sigandur or Sigandooru is a small village located in Sagara Taluk, Karnataka, India. The village is surrounded on three sides by back waters of Linganamakki dam formed by Sharavathi River. The place is known for Sigandur Chowdeshwari Temple, which attracts hundreds of people every day. The temple is managed by temple committee and Holekoppa Ramappa is the secretary of the temple committee as of 2013.[1]

Sigandur is about 40 km from its taluk headquarters, Sagara town. Sigandur was cut off from Sagar once reservoir on Sharavathi River was constructed. 2 barges, which carry transport vehicles, tourists, pilgrims and local people provide connectivity across the water. Barge service stops at 5 PM every day.

Sigandur is surrounded by water from three sides and connected by road on one side, which can be reached via Kollur and Nagodi. Barge is the major means of transport to this place.




Gudavi Bird Sanctuary (Kannada: ????? ???????? ) is located in the Sorab taluk of Sagara Subdivision in the Indian state of Karnataka. Gudavi Bird Sanctuary is located on the Banavasi Road in Gudavi of Sorab Taluk which is 16 km from Sorab town. The bird sanctuary is one of the best five of Karnataka. It is spread over an area of 0.74 square km.

As per survey, 217 different species of birds belonging to 48 families are found at this place.[1][2] A natural lake and the trees gives shelter to this birds. The picturesque Gudavi Lake with trees all along its banks is a beautiful sight in itself. It is a small seasonal lake and is filled with water mostly in the rainy season. Various avian species migrate from across the globe in different seasons for breeding. A platform is built for bird watchers to have a closer look at the birds.



Jog Falls, Gerosoppa Falls or Joga Falls is the second-highest plunge waterfall in India located in Sagara taluk in the state of Karnataka.[1] The segmented falls are a major tourist attraction. They are also known as the Gersoppa Falls or Jogada Gundi.[2]

The falls are located on the Uttara Kannada and Sagara border.

Contents  [hide] 
1	Description
2	Etymology
3	Significance
4	Change in flow
5	Power
6	Transport connectivity
7	Gallery
8	See also
9	References
10	External links
Description[edit]
Jog Falls is created by the Sharavathi River dropping 253 m (830 ft), making it the second-highest plunge waterfall in India after the Nohkalikai Falls with a drop of 335 m (1100 ft) in Meghalaya.[3]

Sharavathi, a river which rises at Ambutirtha, next to Nonabur, in the Thirthahalli taluk and takes the northwesterly course by Fatte petta, receives the Haridravati on the right below Pattaguppe and the Yenne Hole on the left above Barangi. On arriving at the frontier it bends to the west, precipitates itself down the Falls of Gersoppa, and passes that village (properly Geru-Sappe), which is some 29 kilometres (18 mi) distant, discharging into the sea at Honnavar in North Kanara.

The Sharavati, flowing over a very rocky bed about 250 yards (230 m) wide, here reaches a tremendous chasm, 290 m (960 ft) deep, and the water comes down in four distinct falls. The Raja Fall pours in one unbroken column sheer to the depth of 830 ft (250 m). Halfway down it is encountered by the Roarer, another fall, which precipitates itself into a vast cup and then rushes violently downwards at an angle of forty-five degrees to meet the Raja. A third fall, the Rocket, shoots downwards in a series of jets; while the fourth, the Rani, moves quietly over the mountain side in a sheet of foam. The Tourism Department has built steps from the viewpoint to the bottom of the hill where the waterfall can be seen at the opposite side. There are approximately 1400 steps built to reach the bottom of the hill.




Unchalli Falls Kannada: ??????? ?????, also known as Lushington Falls, is a waterfall created by a 116 metres (381 ft) drop in the Aghanashini river. The fall is located near Siddapur in Uttara Kannada District of Karnataka, India. The falls are named for J. D. Lushington, a District Collector for the British Government, who discovered the falls in 1845.[1]

Heggarne, a hamlet in Uttara Kannada district, is 35 km from Siddapur. The falls are reached by a 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) trek from Heggarne through thick forest. Here the river makes a cavalcade of water falls and eventually leaps into a steep valley to form a spectacular, picturesque waterfall. The falls are sometimes called Keppa Joga because of the deafening sound they make.


Sirsi is a town in the Uttara Kannada district in the Indian state of Karnataka. Sirsi was also known as Kalyanapattana[1] during the Sonda Dynasty. It is a tourist destination with a population of 62882. It is the largest town and main commercial centre and business hub in Uttara Kannada district. The city is surrounded by forest and the region is popular for a large number of waterfalls. Hubli and Shimoga are the nearest large cities. The main businesses around the city are mostly subsistence and agriculture based. Adike (Supari) (Areca nut) or (betel nut) is the primary crop grown in the villages that surround the city, making it one of the major trading centres for Arecanut. The nuts grown there are transported all over India, and also exported abroad. The region is also popular for many other spices like cardamom, pepper, betel leaves and vanilla. The major food crop is paddy and rice is the staple food of the people.



Yana (Kannada: ???) is a village located in forests of the Uttara Kannada district of Karnataka, India which is known for the unusual rock formations (Karst) or (Asteroid). It is located in the Sahyadri mountain range of the Western Ghats, about 60 kilometres (37 mi) from Karwar port, 40 kilometres (25 mi) from Sirsi, and 31 kilometres (19 mi) from Kumta. The two unique rock outcrops near the village are a tourist attraction and easily approachable by a small trek through 0.5 kilometres (0.31 mi) of thick forests from the nearest road head.[1][2][3]

Yana is famous for these two massive rock outcrops known as the Bhairaveshwara Shikhara and the Mohini Shikhara ("Shikhara" means "hill"). The huge rocks are composed of solid black, crystalline Karst limestone. Bhairaveshwara Shikhara is 120 metres (390 ft) in height, while the Mohini Shikhara, which is smaller, is 90 metres (300 ft) in height. Yana is also well known as a pilgrimage centre because of the cave temple below the Bhairaveshwara Shikhara where a Swayambhu ("self manifested", or "that which is created by its own accord") linga has been formed. Water drips from the roof over the linga, adding to the sanctity of the place.[1][2][3]

During annual festivities held here during the Shivaratri, a car festival is also held. The place and surrounding hillocks are also known for ever green scenic forest.[1][2][3]

